All right.
So we just saw if we have two resistors in parallel you should be able to write one over our equivalent
is one over our one plus one over our two and this is fine and dandy but I find this is a little bit
long so here's a little trick right.
If you only have two and let's just be clear that you have to have two.
OK.
Doesn't work for three or four but you can always do two at a time.
So if you have two resistors in parallel you can use this equation it's fine and then you're going to
get the right answer.
However there's a better way to do this.
And the trick is Let's first put them on a common denominator so it put them on a common denominator
that would be our one multiplied by our two in order to do that.
I'd have to multiply this side by our two and I'd have to multiply this side by our.
Now this is the exact same expression.
This is one over our equivalent.
Hopefully you could see that now at the end really what I want to get is are equivalent I don't want
to know one over are equivalent that doesn't get me anywhere.
So you have to do now is just flip these.
So are equivalent if there's only two resistors is are one are two divided by are one plus are two.
So what does that mean that are equivalent.
If there's two multiply
with this term are 1 multiplied by are two.
And the other one some.
So that's all you need to do.
If you have two resistors in parallel with each other you want to know what the equivalent resistance
is down here.
All you need to do is you multiply them and divided by the sum.
So let's take an example.
Imagine you have five and five right.
Take a simple example five ohm resistor is in parallel with a five Omers ister the equivalent resistance
in this case where you could do this one over five plus one over five equals one over are equivalent.
Way too slow in this case you simply multiply them five times five.
Multiply divided by the sum of the sum is 10.
You get 25 over 10.
You can take out five from each get five over two which gives you 2.5 ohms or if you add another example
what if you had six and three.
What would be our equivalent in that case.
Well they are equivalents and there's only two I can use the trick.
You can multiply them that's 18 divided by the sum.
I add them up six plus three gives me nine.
This is equivalent to a 2 ohm resistor.
All right on more what if you had 10 and 20.
Would that give you more are equivalent in this case.
Very very easy to multiply them it's 200 divided by the sum 30 gives me 20 over 3 ohms.
OK.
So whenever you have two resistors and pair of Al there's a simple little trick.
Multiply them divided by the sum.